README.md, before:

# Jetson Nano CUDA Depthmapper for AGV

This is for my Undergraduate Final Project.
Using 2 Logitech C270 cameras as the sensor and Jetson Nano 4GB as the depth processor.

### Hardware Setup
![alt text](https://github.com/yonathanarya/depthmapper/blob/master/hardware_setup.jpg?raw=true)

Laptop: Huawei Matebook X Pro (2018) i7-8550u 16GB RAM

SBC: Nvidia Jetson Nano Development Kit 4GB

Flight (Robot) Controller: Pixhawk 2.1 Cube

GPS: Here3 (u-blox M8P)

Stereo Camera: 2 pcs Logitech C270 HD Webcam

RC Kit: Offbrand offroad 4WD frame kit

Motor: Brushed

ESC: Brushed ESC

Battery: 2S LiPo battery

BEC: UBEC 5V/3A (for powering Jetson)

### Pre-requisites
To use the CUDA version of OpenCV in this project, we have to build our own OpenCV as, by default, the built-in OpenCV shipped with Jetson Nano Jetpack is not having Cuda support [like the tutorial here](https://qengineering.eu/install-opencv-on-jetson-nano.html). And also need to install [pymavlink](https://pypi.org/project/pymavlink/) and [StereoVision](https://pypi.org/project/StereoVision/) for calibration.
```
pip3 install pymavlink
pip3 install StereoVision
```

### Running the program
You can download the zip of this repo or use `git clone`. Choose whatever you want.

If running for the first time, prepare the chessboard then run the calibration first:
```
python3 capture_calib.py
```
then
```
python3 calibrate.py
```


How to run this program

Open separate terminal or ssh connection for these:

for broadcasting mavlink connection over UDP to control and monitor pixhawk over wi-fi
```
sudo ./mav.sh
```
but you need to install mavproxy first [from here](https://pypi.org/project/MAVProxy/)

to run the main program:

```
python3 main.py
```
then press ctrl+c when the terminal display:
```
>>> disabling camera auto setting
```

You can choose which algorithm is used via the `-a` command line switch:

```
python main.py -a <algorithm>

options:

-a bm
-a sgbm
-a cudabm
-a cudasgm
```
bm: CPU block matching algorithm

sgbm: CPU semi global block matching algorithm

cudabm: CUDA/GPU block matching algorithm, similiar to bm but using GPU to compute (for my use case, this is the best so i set this as default)

cudasgm: CUDA/GPU semi global matching, based on OpenCV docs is similiar to sgbm but using GPU to compute. (I'm still curious why it is not named sgbm even if the documentation is similiar)


CudaBM is the default if this option is ignored.


### Configuration

All configuration will be done via a config file named `settings.conf`. I've made sure to write comments in the default configuration file to give an understanding of what each parameter does.

This file must live next to `main.py`, and will be automatically loaded.


### Output 

Output is the average sum from the disparity map's center area and is sent to Pixhawk.

This is a sample of the result from the disparity map; on the top left corner is FPS measured (when not streamed through SSH, the FPS increases to around 20)
![alt text](https://github.com/yonathanarya/depthmapper/blob/master/sample.png?raw=true)
![alt text](https://github.com/yonathanarya/depthmapper/blob/master/orig.png?raw=true)


### Camera delay

Because of the limitation of the USB camera, there are slight delays between the capture of left and right images. This will affect depth mapping, especially when the rover is moving. Here is the delay proof
![alt text](https://github.com/yonathanarya/depthmapper/blob/master/left.png?raw=true)![alt text](https://github.com/yonathanarya/depthmapper/blob/master/right.png?raw=true)

Commit message:

cudasgm and update skid steering rover

README.md, after:

# Jetson Nano CUDA Depthmapper for AGV

This is for my Undergraduate Final Project.
Using 2 Logitech C270 cameras as the sensor and Jetson Nano 4GB as the depth processor.

### Hardware Setup
![alt text](https://github.com/yonathanarya/depthmapper/blob/master/hardware_setup.jpg?raw=true)

Laptop: Huawei Matebook X Pro (2018) i7-8550u 16GB RAM

SBC: Nvidia Jetson Nano Development Kit 4GB

Flight (Robot) Controller: Pixhawk 2.1 Cube

GPS: Here3 (u-blox M8P)

Stereo Camera: 2 pcs Logitech C270 HD Webcam

Robot Chassis: TP100 Tracked Differential Steering Robot

Motor: 2 pcs Brushed 6-12V Motors

Motor Driver: L298N H-Bridge Motor Driver

Battery: 2S LiPo battery

BEC: UBEC 5V/3A (for powering Jetson)

### Pre-requisites
To use the CUDA version of OpenCV in this project, we have to build our own OpenCV as, by default, the built-in OpenCV shipped with Jetson Nano Jetpack is not having Cuda support [like the tutorial here](https://qengineering.eu/install-opencv-on-jetson-nano.html). And also need to install [pymavlink](https://pypi.org/project/pymavlink/) and [StereoVision](https://pypi.org/project/StereoVision/) for calibration.
```
pip3 install pymavlink
pip3 install StereoVision
```

### Running the program
You can download the zip of this repo or use `git clone`. Choose whatever you want.

If running for the first time, prepare the chessboard then run the calibration first:
```
python3 capture_calib.py
```
then
```
python3 calibrate.py
```


How to run this program

Open separate terminal or ssh connection for these:

for broadcasting mavlink connection over UDP to control and monitor pixhawk over wi-fi
```
sudo ./mav.sh
```
but you need to install mavproxy first [from here](https://pypi.org/project/MAVProxy/)

to run the main program:

```
python3 main.py
```
then press ctrl+c when the terminal display:
```
>>> disabling camera auto setting
```

You can choose which algorithm is used via the `-a` command line switch:

```
python main.py -a <algorithm>

options:

-a bm
-a sgbm
-a cudabm
-a cudasgm
```
bm: CPU block matching algorithm

sgbm: CPU semi global block matching algorithm

cudabm: CUDA/GPU block matching algorithm, similiar to bm but using GPU to compute (for my use case, this is the best so i set this as default)

cudasgm: CUDA/GPU semi global matching, based on OpenCV docs is similiar to sgbm but using GPU to compute. (I'm still curious why it is not named sgbm even if the documentation is similiar)


CudaSGM is the default if this option is ignored.


### Configuration

All configuration will be done via a config file named `settings.conf`. I've made sure to write comments in the default configuration file to give an understanding of what each parameter does.

This file must live next to `main.py`, and will be automatically loaded.


### Output 

Output is the average sum from the disparity map's center area and is sent to Pixhawk.

This is a sample of the result from the disparity map; on the top left corner is FPS measured (when not streamed through SSH, the FPS increases to around 20)
![alt text](https://github.com/yonathanarya/depthmapper/blob/master/sample.png?raw=true)
![alt text](https://github.com/yonathanarya/depthmapper/blob/master/orig.png?raw=true)


### Camera delay

Because of the limitation of the USB camera, there are slight delays between the capture of left and right images. This will affect depth mapping, especially when the rover is moving. Here is the delay proof
![alt text](https://github.com/yonathanarya/depthmapper/blob/master/left.png?raw=true)![alt text](https://github.com/yonathanarya/depthmapper/blob/master/right.png?raw=true)
